.TH COLOUR 1
.SH NAME
colour \- converts colours betwen various colour spaces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B colour
.I [options]
.I command
.I arguments…
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B colour
is a command-line interface for working with colours. It lets you
convert colours between different colour spaces, match colours to those
in standard and user-defined palettes and get information about colours.
The following colour spaces are supported:
.HP
*
.B RGB
(more precisely, sRGB)
.HP
*
.B HSL
(Hue-Saturation-Lightness)
.HP
*
.B HWB
(Hue-Whiteness-Blackness)
.HP
*
.B Linear
RGB (i.e., CIE RGB with a D65 illuminant)
.HP
*
.B XYZ
(assumes D65 illuminant)
.HP
*
.B LAB
(more precisely, CIE L*a*b* with D50 illuminant)
.HP
*
.B LCH
(more precisely, CIE L*C*h° with D50 illuminant)
.HP
*
.B YUV
(more precisely, ITU-T T.871 Y'CbCr used in JPEG)
.HP
*
.B YCC
(more precisely, ITU-R BT.2020 linear Yc'CbcCrc)
.P
The only palette provided built-in is the
.BR css
standard palette defined by W3C CSS Level 4 Color Module named colours
list, but users can define their own palettes using a JSON schema.
.P
Information about the colours specified or matched is printed to stdout
in a tabular format. By default, the table is formatted in plain
.B text
acording to the GitHub-flavoured Markdown table syntax. You can choose
to instead format the output as an
.B html
file, a
.B csv
(Comma-separated Values) file, a
.B json
formatted array, or in a
.B flat
(i.e., not tabular) plain-text format.
.P
By default, the following pieces of information (
.I columns
) are output though it is possible to customize this list with a
command-line option.
.HP
*
.BR r
— rgb(r,g,b) sRGB components as decimal integers in the range 0..255
.HP
*
.BR p
— rgb(r%,g%,b%) sRGB components as floating-point numbers in the range
0..100
.HP
*
.BR x
— #rrggbb (or #rgb, if compatible) hexadecimal notation of an sRGB
colour
.HP
*
.BR l
— lab(l a b) CIE L*a*b* components as floating-point numbers
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
.IR -f, --format " " text|html|flat|csv|json
.IP
Specifies the output format
.TP
.IR -c, --columns " " *|columns…
.IP
Specifies which pieces of information (columns) will be included in the
output
.TP
.IR -p, --palette " " file
.IP
Specifies a palette JSON file to reference
.TP
.IR -t, --template " " file
.IP
Specifies a Pug template for formatting tables as HTML
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BR columns
Print a list of the columns names that can be specified as the argument
to the
.BR --columns
option.
.TP
.BR convert " " colours…
Print information about the specified colours.
.TP
.BR match " " palette " " colours…
Match the colours specified to those in the given palette.
.IP
There are two additional options that control matching:
.IP
.B -c,--count
.I <int>
.IP
limits the total number of matches reported. By default, only
the best match for a colour is reported. Setting this option to e.g., 3
will otuput the top 3 matches.
.IP
.B -e,--delta
.I <float>
.IP
limits how different a colour may be in order to be considered
“matching” by giving the maximum ΔE*₀₀ colour difference value allowed.
Lower ΔE*₀₀ values indicate more perceptually similar colours: the
just-noticeable-difference threshold value is ΔE*₀₀ < 2.3.
By default, the best match(es) are reported no matter how large ΔE*₀₀ is.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.BR 0
Printed information about one or more colours.
.TP
.BR 1
An exception occurred: check the syntax of the colours you specified
or the palette JSON files or Pug templates specified.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example shows the default output for finding a couple of
colours:
.P
.B colour convert
.I aliceblue #aabbcc "hsl(300,100%,20%)"
.P
.BD
| sRGB             | sRGB (%)                | sRGB (Hex) | L*a*b*                  |
|:-----------------|:------------------------|:-----------|:------------------------|
| rgb(240,248,255) | rgb(94.12%,97.25%,100%) | #f0f8ff    | lab(97.12 -1.77 -4.36)  |
| rgb(170,187,204) | rgb(66.67%,73.33%,80%)  | #abc       | lab(74.97 -3.4 -10.72)  |
| rgb(102,0,102)   | rgb(40%,0%,40%)         | #606       | lab(22.87 47.74 -30.88) |
.ED
.P
.B colour match
.I -c 'lr[r:e][css][css:e]' -n 3 css 'lab(50 15 -75)'
.P
.BD
| L*a*b*                  | sRGB            | ΔE*₀₀ (RGB) | CSS        | ΔE*₀₀ (CSS) |
|:------------------------|:----------------|:------------|:-----------|:------------|
| lab(46.8 17.79 -66.68)  | rgb(65,105,225) | 5.677       | royalblue  | 5.677       |
| lab(51.99 -8.36 -32.85) | rgb(70,130,180) | 8.018       | steelblue  | 8.018       |
| lab(58.36 0.89 -64.8)   | rgb(30,144,255) | 9.969       | dodgerblue | 9.969       |
.ED
